So far in this section of the course we've been using the map plot lib module and in particular pi plot
in order to make graphics.
However it's also possible to make visualizations of symbolic functions directly using these simple
module and that is the main point of this video.
I'm going to introduce you to plotting using simply you'll see that some aspects are similar to using
map plot lib and some aspects are a little bit different.
All right so let's immediately switch to Python and start working.
So obviously we are going to need these simple module so import simple by as sin.
So I'm going to start by defining a fairly simple function and that function will be Y equals X squared.
Okay so now here I'm defining y but I haven't yet defined X so I'm going to import this.
I'm going to say from simple dot ABC import variable x.
Okay so I can run that cell.
Don't get any errors don't get me messages or anything so that's a good sign.
Now the way that plotting works in simple is you use the function Sim dot plotting dot plot and then
you just input the function that you want to plot.
So in this case y.
And remember that y here so the input into these simple plotting plot function is not just a variable.
This is not just a vector of some numbers.
This is actually a simple high object.
Okay.
So if you try to run this you actually don't get the plot.
You get the plot object.
So here is this object it's a figure.
So what you need to do is request an output.
So you say P equals or BLT or whatever variable name and then you get this nice output.
So this is of course the function Y equals X squared.
So already there's one thing to notice about this graph here and that is that I didn't actually input
any x values.
So python just picked some x values that it thought would be a decent range for this function.
And I also didn't specify what the x axis should be.
Now in this case it was obvious because there is only one variable This is a function of one variable
and that is x.
So if you were using matte plot lib then you would probably do something like this where you input x
comma Y to show the X axis variable and the y axis variable.
However if you run this in simple plot you actually get two lines and it looks a little weird these
two lines but actually this first line is the function Y equals X.
Now it might not look like the function Y equals X because you're used to seeing that as like a 45 degree
angle.
However notice that the axis limits are different.
So this goes up to 10.
This goes up to 100.
So in fact what we did here was input two separate functions into the simple plotting function.
So Y equals X and Y equals X squared.
All right.
So let's say you want to change the x axis limits.
Maybe you don't want to show the negative numbers you just want to show the positive numbers and you
want to show them a little bit higher.
So let's start by just printing out this P variable and see what this is okay.
So this says it's a plot object that contains zeros.
This is the first element a Cartesian line.
So there's a Cartesian plot x squared over X or for X goes from minus 10 to plus 10.
Okay so that's pretty interesting.
This is actually already a little bit of a preview into something I'm going to do in a few minutes which
is generate multiple functions inside the same plot and you'll see that each one each for each function.
Each line is going to have its own separate line here.
In fact I think I'll even show you that now.
So let's say x come away.
Now you can see that this plot object contains two elements the first elements element zero is the line
X and the second element which has index 1 is the line X squared.
All right so let's try doing something like when we say p dot y Lim equals zero to 50.
So what I hope this is going to do is change the y axis limits to go from 0 to 50 instead of minus 10
plus 10 huh.
And it looks like it actually did nothing at all.
And so this feature is actually a little bit similar to matte plot lib in the sense that once the plot
is already shown on the graph once the plot is generated once this picture is image is produced it's
not possible to modify any of the access parameters.
So then the way to do this is you have to tell simply explicitly not to plot this image not to create
this graph yet until you're finished generating all the parameters and then you show the graph.
So that part's also a bit similar to using matte plot lib.
So for example we say show dot false.
So this is a boolean false.
And here I'm turning show off.
So now when I run this again we don't see any plot.
And that's because the visualization of the plot is deactivated and then basically down here whenever
you're finished modifying all the parameters and the visualizations then you type p dot show and oh
right.
Oh I see.
I said the why limit.
So in fact this did work.
Now the y axis limit goes from 0 to 50.
Remember before it was 100 but I actually was talking about the x axis limit.
It's just a little type of there.
Okay so now we've changed the x axis limit to go from 0 to 50.
And there are other things that you can change as well we can say P that line color equals.
How about M for Mike.
No I'm just kidding.
M is for magenta huh.
Now in that case this one didn't do anything.
The line here is still blue.
The line color is still blue.
Now the difference between this line and this line is here you are actually changing a property of the
entire graph the entire axis.
But here we are only changing the line color.
Not for all the lines look at all the lines in this entire plot.
We only want to change the line color for this line which corresponds to the first element of this plot
object so therefore we need to access only that one element.
And now that changed the line color just for this line.
Okay.
So already you can see that when adjusting the visual the aesthetic properties of this graph you have
to be mindful of whether you are changing a feature of the entire plot or a feature of an individual
line or an individual piece inside that plot.
So for example let's say we wanted to change the title so we say title equals.
This is a nice plot.
Now is the time.
So first of all this is not going to work here because Python doesn't know what we are trying to do
in fact Python is just going to interpret this as a regular variable.
The question is should I write p dot title or p zero dot title right.
I'm sure you guessed it correctly.
The answer is p dot because we are changing a property of the entire axis.
This entire graph not just this one line very nice.
So what I'd like to do now is show you how to generate multiple lines on top of each other and how to
integrate simplify a little bit better with these simple plotting.
Okay.
Now first of all writing this out I find to be a little bit long.
Some plotting dot plot.
So what I'm going to do is shorten this a little bit and I'm going to write up here.
Import Sim pi dot plotting dot plot as simpler.
So now once I run this code now instead of writing some dot plotting that plot I can simply type Sim
plot.
So that's a little bit shorter.
And this will get you the same thing as this.
So this will access all the same objects and methods and so on as writing this whole thing out as you
can see here.
All right.
So that already makes it a little bit easier.
So what I'd like to do now is import another variable and that's going to be a sim that symbols X comma
a.
So now you might be thinking that I don't really need to import will X again here because I've already
imported it up here.
Now technically that's true but in this case I'm doing something different with the variable here compared
to what I was doing with the variable here.
And so therefore I often find it personally helpful it helps me read the code to import the variables
again even if it's not strictly necessary.
Okay so I'm going to come up with a really simple function.
Let's call this expression a divided by X and now basically what I want to do is make a plot of a divided
by X for two different values of a.
So I want to substitute this expression for a couple of different numbers.
All right so let's start by writing p equals Sim.
Plot expression and let's see what happens.
Oh we get an error and the error is that the same variables should be used in all unit various expressions
being plotted.
OK.
So that's quite a mouthful of an error but essentially the problem here is that we have two variables.
And the plot is just going to show we're supposed to show only one line.
So basically we haven't given Python enough information for simplified to be able to generate this plot.
So in fact what we want to do is substitute a value for a.
So I want to say that sub's a comma.
Let's go for one.
So now this is going to turn into the expression one over X and that is certainly something that is
plausible.
Okay.
So maybe you don't actually see the blue line or maybe you can kind of see it on your own screen but
in fact there is a blue line here it just this function goes up to infinity and down to minus infinity
here.
So let's start specifying some of the ranges.
So up here I showed you how to specify the x axis limit like this.
And I'm going to show you another way and that is by importing your preferred axis limits directly into
the plot.
So with parentheses you write X comma minus five comma plus five.
So this is the variable that we want to express the limits of the lower limit and the upper limit.
So let's see what this looks like now.
All right.
So now we go from minus five to plus five.
And it's not really any more visual easily visualize well than it was before.
So let's write.
Show equals false.
And then here I'm gonna specify that P the why.
LIM should also be minus.
Minus five to plus five.
And then I can show this plus p dot show.
All right.
This is starting to look a bit more interesting.
So this is the plot of the function.
1 over X I'm substituting one for a.
And then we're plotting one over X here.
Okay.
So let's put a label in here.
So p zero dot label equals.
And then this is.
So y equals one over x.
Huh.
And we still don't see the legend inside this plot.
Maybe that legend also needs to be activated.
So we write P that legend equals true.
And this is going to tell a simple guy that we want the legend to be shown.
Okay.
So here you see this label.
Now there's two issues here.
One issue is that this is hardcoded to be one.
And that's kind of OK because I also hardcoded that here.
But in general in the future it's good to know how to make this be more dynamic how to make this soft
code.
So I'm going to write here.
Percent.
S and you can probably already guess where this is going.
I'm going to actually just copy and paste this in here.
So this is particularly useful if you're saying something like an equals one and then I'm substituting
n in here like this.
Okay.
So that is one that solves one problem.
Another thing I'd like to change which isn't actually a problem but I would like this to be an actual
fraction.
I would like this to look a little bit more like a fraction rather than one slash X..
And so to do that I want to in case some of this stuff in latex code.
So we want latex code in the label so you might think of doing something simple like simple latex but
then it's actually just showing the latex code.
So this is probably even worse than the previous legend.
So what we need to do is actually get this entire expression to be in latex.
Now the way to do that is not by writing display and math functions.
Instead the way to do that is to in case this expression in dollar signs like this and the dollar signs
like this is the way to illustrate that inside this string we are going to be using LaTeX code or this
text should be interpreted as latex code.
So there you go a little bit small maybe but you can probably read it on your own screen that says Y
equals one divided by x.
Okay so that is for plotting one line.
Now what do I do if I want to plot two lines.
So I want another function maybe I want to set a to be equal to two and to see how one over X compares
with two over x.
So the way that you have to do that is by using a method associated with a plot object called extend.
So we say extend and basically what we want to do is extend this plot object by one more element.
And what is that other element that we want to put in there so that other element is actually exactly
this.
So one way you could do this or accomplish this goal is by saying let's call this P2 and then I say
extend P2.
So this is going to be extend by or so a equals 2.
And now just out of curiosity to see what happens I'm going to remove the X limit parameter inside this
function.
All right.
So this is looking kind of good it's it's getting there.
You can see there are two lines.
Now the problem is both of these lines are blue.
So it's kind of hard to say which line is which function.
You can kind of tell because we know that this line was set to go from minus five to plus five.
And this line here corresponds to or has bounds at minus five and plus find five.
So that means that this one is actually.
So the the inner line here is actually y equals one over X and the outer one is Y equals 2 divided by
X but I think the bigger problem here is that the two lines have the same color but you know how to
solve that problem we simply type P and then you can pick which line you want so let's say the first
line dot line color equals loops part should have been all right.
So that is looking pretty good.
And then I'm also going to specify the label for this second line.
So now this is no longer p zero.
This was p 0.
This is p 1.
So then this has to be a 2 All right.
This is starting to look pretty good I think.
The very last thing that I want to show you is that if the inputs into the extend method here are actually
I should say the inputs into Simplot are not so big like this.
Then you can actually shorten this code by a line and just directly call the Simplot function embedded
into the extend function.
So just like that in this video I introduced you to using these simple module for plotting.
You can see that some features of using simple for plotting are this are similar to map plot lib and
some features are a bit different.
I guess I would say that my personal preference is in general to stick to map plot lib instead of using
simple plotting and I say that mainly because I think it's useful to try to be consistent and compact
in your code to help minimize confusion.
But anyway it's still important to know how to generate plots using simple methods.
Stay tuned for the next video.
The next video is going to be an exercise where you will get to produce actually this graph right here.
So see you in the next video.